Ken Rodriguez
Professor Conlan
CS-305: Software Security

Reflection

- Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and their software requirements.
  Who was the client? What issue did they want you to address?
  
    The client was a company called Artemis Financial that deals with customers' financial data, handling a variety 
of different financial plans for customers, such as savings accounts, retirement, and insurance. Given this focus on
sensitive data, the client requested that a foundation for customer security be set to ensure their web interface
complies with security standards. Specifically, they asked that an algorithm cipher be identified and implemented to
meet their needs, a self-signed security certificate be implemented, and that the software is properly tested and secure.


- What did you do very well when you found your client’s software security vulnerabilities? 
  Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall wellbeing?
    
    I feel that I implemented the chosen algorithm cipher very well. The cipher chosen, SHA-256, offers a good balance of
security and speed, and its implementation simple to understand and graceful to boot. Implementing software security properly
is important to a company in that it builds customer trust and in turn, provides a more desirable product to those customers.
Ensuring proper security practices is also very important to ensure the organization meets local regulations regarding that
customer data. Value, value, value.


- What part of the vulnerability assessment was challenging or helpful to you?
    
    I find that as a result of studying SHA algorithms, I have a better understanding of the encryption process as a whole.
As computers continue to get more powerful, encryption is probably going to become an even bigger part of software moving
forward; even moreso as automation and AI continue to grow.


- How did you increase layers of security? In the future, what would you use to assess vulnerabilities 
  and decide which mitigation techniques to use?
    
    To encrease the application's security, in addition to adding algorithm ciphers and utilizing OWASP dependency checks,
secure programming practices were implemented such as encapsulation and properly commenting code. This ensures that the
data being observed for this practice (a simple string) remain unmodifiable, providing greater security in that the string
is harder to tamper with. In the future, this course provided a pretty helpful security workflow diagram that provides a
pretty thorough approach to the "sec" portion of devsecops. Hitting the books also wouldn't hurt much.


- How did you make certain the code and software application were functional and secure? 
  After refactoring the code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?
 
    To identify security flaws in the software, a visual inspection is a useful first step. Is inputted information being
checked to ensure the data being passed through isn't an injection attack attempt? Is this software adhering to object 
oriented practices? Taking a look at the code (if it's properly formatted and still fairly easy to read) can show a lot of
what's going on that could cause security problems down the road. For everything that can't be seen visually, however,
using dependency checks (such as the OWASP check used in this assignment) can quickly provide information as to whether
the dependencies included in the software are up-to-date. Updated dependencies can contribute greatly to better software
security, so these tools are invaluable.

- What resources, tools, or coding practices did you use that might be helpful in future assignments or tasks?
    
    As stated a bit earlier, dependency checks and external libraries can streamline the security process greatly and
implementing simple things like input checks and OOP principles can contribute greatly to successful security practices.


- Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to show your skills, knowledge, 
  and experience. What might you show future employers from this assignment?
  
    From this assignment, I would consider flaunting my newfound knowledge of cipher algorithms and their implementation.
As stated earlier, I see cryptography becoming more and more important as computers continue to grow more powerful, so
this information will be a point of continued study in my own life.    
